# IS 477 Interim Status Report 📃
### Task Update 

Since having our project plan approved and beginning work on our analyses, we have been able to make considerable progress on the final project. The timeline outlined in our initial project plan was a great deal of help, and allowed us to break down the tasks into more manageable chunks. We sat down and met about once a week, and discussed our asynchronous work on the project as well as completed many of the preliminary deliverables together. As of now, all data cleaning, descriptive statistics, and integration have been completed. Data cleaning took the bulk of the work, as we had to reference external data sources in order to ensure accuracy. That being said, timeliness was not a particularly relevant dimension of data quality in this project, and we saw no overwhelming issues with completeness or consistency. Integration also took a good deal of time, as we had to filter the datasets to the same subset of dates, and extremely carefully aggregate our vaccination dataset. Ensuring the merge was executed completely required additional quality checks and accuracy validation. All of the tasks including cleaning and quality assurance were executed in the Python workbook in our shared Github repository. While we hoped to also upload our datasets to the repo, the file sizes were too big. That being said, the links to the data can be found both in our project plan and below. In the coming weeks, we plan to complete the visualization and analysis portion of the project, as well as begin working on our final project report. It is our hope that by being proactive on these tasks, we will have the means to integrate data storytelling throughout our report.

**Link to Instagram Data:** https://zenodo.org/records/13896353

**Link to Vaccination Data:** https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ayufitriani/covid-19-vaccinations-by-our-world-in-data?resource=download 

### Update on Timeline 
Throughout the project, we have done our best to follow the timeline we proposed in the project plan. Overall, we have made significant progress in completing the beginning phases outlined in our timeline. 

The first phase was Data Collection and Integration. We were able to fully complete this task during October 15-22. All preprocessing, cleaning, and merging of the vaccination and public sentiment datasets were conducted in our Google Colab notebook. 

The second phase in our timeline was Exploratory Data Analysis. This phase took place on October 23-30 and has also been completed. We performed descriptive analyses to summarize vaccination trends over time and across regions. We also summarized sentiment trends from Instagram posts. Our Google Colab notebook includes those statistical summaries and initial findings. 

The Visualization and Interpretation phase was originally planned to take place on October 31-November 7. However, we decided to postpone this phase because we wanted to prioritize studying for the midterm. We plan to resume this task following the completion of the interim status report. During the week of November 17th, we will work to create data visualization that summarizes our data analysis. 

Furthermore, because the Interim Status Report was rescheduled, we ended up not working on it when we had originally planned for November 8-10. For the Interim Status Report, we aim to summarize our main insights and link our findings in our repository. 

Lastly, we will combine the Final Project Development and Submission phases to catch up to our deadline on December 10. We will make this a continuous period. By integrating these phases, this will allow us to finalize our visualizations and ensure analytical reproducibility. We expect to include our final code and visualizations to the repository by December 10th. This adjustment aligns with our current progress while still maintaining overall project quality and deadlines.

### Project Change Description

We have only made a few adjustments to our project plan based on our actual progress. While the early stages were completed on schedule, we postponed the visualization and interpretation phase due to prioritizing studying for the midterm and abiding to the delayed deadline of the interim status report. As a result, visualizations have not yet been completed. We also decided to merge the final development and submission phases into a single timeline to help streamline our workflow. These updates will better reflect our current progress and ensure a more manageable path forward.

### Team Member Contributions
#### Sarah 🌸: 
As previously mentioned, a great deal of project work was completed during synchronous meetings. During such meetings, we discussed our tasks and researched how to best analyze and display our data. I have taken a number of technical coding courses and have a bit of real-world experience in data science, so I took on the bulk of the programming. The code in the Python workbook found in our Github repository was produced by me, though Megan and I discussed together the specific methods and metrics we were using. I also managed the Github repository and ensured that all of our materials were properly uploaded and rendered. Megan cross-referenced the course material to ensure we were meeting all of the requirements for the final project as well as did research into specific visualizations and methods of analysis we could use. I feel that our dynamic played to each of our strengths and was evenly distributed across the workload, allowing our current form of the project to be sufficient in both quality and quantity. 

#### Megan 🌺:
For this milestone, I collaborated with Sarah during our synchronous meetings. In these meetings, we would discuss our approach to the timeline. Since we worked in conjunction with each other, we would reach a conclusion on decisions about our analytical methods. While Sarah focused more on the coding and implementation, I took the lead on ensuring that our project aligned with the course expectations. I frequently cross-referenced the course project overview and our submitted project plan to verify that our workflow met all required components. I also conducted research on effective analytic methods that would best communicate our findings. During our meeting, I contributed by navigating the most effective course of action based on the project requirements. My contributions focused on project organization and methodological presentation to ensure that the technical work was on track to becoming a complete and well-rounded final project. I appreciate how Sarah and I are able to allocate tasks. We will continue to meet and coordinate synchronous meetings moving forward. 
